---
icon: mynaui:api
---

# API

> Using WebSocket hooks API, you can define a WebSocket server that works across runtimes with same synax.

CrossWS provides a cross-platform API to define WebSocket servers. An implementation with these hooks works across runtimes without needing you to go into details of any of them (while you always have the power to control low-level hooks). You can only define the life-cycle hooks that you only need and only those will be called on runtime.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> CrossWS API is still under development and can change.

```ts
import { defineHooks } from "crossws";

const websocket = {
  hooks: defineHooks({
    open(peer) {
      console.log("[ws] open", peer);
    },

    message(peer, message) {
      console.log("[ws] message", peer, message);
      if (message.text().includes("ping")) {
        peer.send("pong");
      }
    },

    close(peer, event) {
      console.log("[ws] close", peer, event);
    },

    error(peer, error) {
      console.log("[ws] error", peer, error);
    },

    // ... platform hooks such as bun:drain ...
  }),
};
```

> [!TIP]
> Using `defineWebSocketHooks` to define hooks, we have type support and IDE auto-completion even if not using typescript. This utility does nothing more and you can use a plain object as well if you prefer to.

## Peer Object

Peer object allows easily interacting with connected clients.

Almost all Websocket hooks accept a peer instance as their first argument. You can use peer object to get information about each connected client or a message to them.

> [!TIP]
> You can safely log a peer instance to the console using `console.log` it will be automatically stringified with useful information including the remote address and connection status!

### API

#### `peer.send(message, compress)`

Send a message to the connected client

#### `peer.id`

The peer address or unique id (might be `undefined`)

#### `peer.readyState`

Client connection status (might be `undefined`)

:read-more{to="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSocket/readyState" title="readyState in MDN"}

#### `peer.ctx`

`peer.ctx` is an object that holds adapter specific context. It is scoped with `peer.ctx.[name]`.

> [!NOTE]
> This is an advanced namespace and API changes might happen, so don't rely on it as much aspossible!

## Message Object

On `message` hook, you receive a message object containing an incoming message from the client.

> [!TIP]
> You can safely log `message` object to the console using `console.log` it will be automatically stringified!

### API

#### `message.text()`

Get stringified text version of the message

#### `message.rawData`

Raw message data

#### `message.isBinary`

Indicates if the message is binary (might be `undefined`)
