---
icon: mynaui:api
---

# Peer

> Peer object allows easily interacting with connected clients.

Websocket [hooks](/guide/hooks) accept a peer instance as their first argument. You can use peer object to get information about each connected client or send a message to them.

> [!TIP]
> You can safely log a peer instance to the console using `console.log` it will be automatically stringified with useful information including the remote address and connection status!

## API

### `peer.send(message, compress)`

Send a message to the connected client

### `peer.addr`

The peer address (might be `undefined`)

### `peer.id`

A unique id assigned to the peer.

### `peer.readyState`

Client connection status (might be `undefined`)

:read-more{to="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSocket/readyState" title="readyState in MDN"}

### `peer.ctx`

`peer.ctx` is an object that holds adapter specific context. It is scoped with `peer.ctx.[name]`.

> [!NOTE]
> `ctx`` is an advanced namespace and API changes might happen, so don't rely on it as much as possible!

### `peer.subscribe(channel)`

Join a broadcast channel.

:read-more{to="/guide/pubsub"}

### `peer.unsubscribe(channel)`

Leave a broadcast channel.

:read-more{to="/guide/pubsub"}

### `peer.publish(channel, message)`

broadcast a message to the channel.

:read-more{to="/guide/pubsub"}

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Native pub/sub is currently only available for [Bun](/adapters/bun) and [Node.js with uWebSockets](/adapters/node#uwebsockets).

### `peer.close(code?, number?)`

Gracefully closes the connection.

Here is a list of close codes:

- `1000` means "normal closure" (default)
- `1009` means a message was too big and was rejected
- `1011` means the server encountered an error
- `1012` means the server is restarting
- `1013` means the server is too busy or the client is rate-limited
- `4000` through `4999` are reserved for applications (you can use it!)

To close the connection abruptly, use `peer.terminate()`.

### `peer.terminate()`

Abruptly close the connection.

To gracefully close the connection, use `peer.close()`.
